# Points, which have to be done in the process of generating a Python library:

## Brainstorming: 
- [ ] What is the need for writing this library
- [ ] What should the library be able to do (which functions should be included).

## Folder and files organisation as e.g. with cookiecutter ([Cookiecutter documentation](http://cookiecutter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)): 
- [ ] Install cookiecutter (different options): 
```
$ pip install --user cookiecutter
$ conda install cookiecutter
$ sudo apt-get install cookiecutter
```
- [ ] Chose and clone a cookiecutter template (e.g. pypackage) and generate a project:
```
$ git clone git@github.com:audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage.git
$ cookiecutter cookiecutter-pypackage/
```
Or directly from the repository (gh: Github):
```
$ cookiecutter gh:audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage
```
Cookiecutter generates then a project corresponding to your entered values. <br/>
The template Cookiecutter-pypackage generates a folder named after the project name, which includes several files, as e.g. 'AUTHORS.rst', 'LICENSE' or 'requirements_dev.txt' and the three folder 'project-name_test', 'docs' and 'tests', which again contain several files, which are requiered for the project.

## Create a Git Repository:
To have at the end an open source software and to have your work safed it is highly recommended to create a Git Repository.

## Testing and code writing:
- [ ] Install pytest (different options): 
```
$ pip install -U pytest
$ conda install -c anaconda pytest
```
- [ ] Write your tests ([Pytest Introduction](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/getting-started.html "Getting started with Pytest")): 
- The test_file (tests/test_project_name_test.py) as well as the test function names need to start with 'test_'.
- import the code-file (project_name.py):
```python
import project_name as project_name_shortcut
```
In case that the code file is not in the tests folder, but in another folder (e.g. 'project'), a link can be created as the following:
```
$ ln -s path/to/code_file/folder link/destination
```
The following folder structure can be used as an example: <br/>
\project <br/>
| <br/>
-- CodeFolder <br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   | <br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   -- CodeFile.py <br/>
-- testsFolder <br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   | <br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   -- test_file.py <br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   -- CodeFolder (link) <br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;      | <br/>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;      -- CodeFile.py (link) <br/>

Then, the code-file can be imported as the following:
```python
import CodeFolder.CodeFile as shortcut
```

- write test functions: 'assert' expected outcome to library generated outcome
- The tests will first fail, because no code is available. Now a code file has to be written, adapted to the tests.
- [ ] Write your code: 
- Adapted to the test_functions a code has to be written so that the tests can pass.
### Check the percentage of code, which is already covered by a test ([Coverage.py](https://coverage.readthedocs.io/en/coverage-4.5.1a/ "Coverage.py")):
- [ ] install Coverage.py (different options):
```
$ pip install coverage
$ conda install -c anaconda coverage
```
- [ ] run coverage in the test folder:
```
$ coverage run -m pytest
$ coverage report
$ coverage html
$ firefox htmlcov/index.html
```

## Documentation with sphinx:
- [ ] Install sphinx (different options):
```
$ apt-get install python-sphinx
$ pip install sphinx
$ conda install -c anaconda sphinx
```
- [ ] Run sphinx:
```
$ sphinx-quickstart
```
A 'conf.py' file will be created, where the entry values can still be changed.
For adding more files for the documentation, reStructuredText files (.rst) ([reStructuredText Introduction](http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html "reStructuredText Introduction"))can be written, as for example 'installation.rst', and included in the index.rst file as the following:
```
Welcome to MyProject's documentation!
*************************************

Table of content
================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :numbered:
	      
   introduction
   tutorial
   code
   installation
```
All reStructuredText files have to be in the same folder for this structure.

__Autogenerated Code documentation:__ <br/>
If an autogenerated code documentation is desired, the following has to be done:
- [ ] Docstrings in the code file, out of which the documentation can be build, has to be written.
- [ ] When running 'sphinx-quickstart', the 'autodoc: automatically insert docstrings from modules' has to be chosen.
- [ ] a code.rst file has to be written with the following input:
```
API
###

.. automodule:: Code_file
   :members: 
```
Whereby the name of the code file will be written without the suffix '.py'. <br/>

__sphinx_rtd_theme:__ <br/>
For using the sphinx theme 'Read the Docs', the following has to be done:
- [ ] Change the html_theme in the conf.py file:
```python
html_theme = "sphinx_rtd_theme"
```
- [ ] Install sphinx_rtd_theme:
```
$ pip install sphinx_rtd_theme
$ conda install -c anaconda sphinx_rtd_theme
```
- [ ] Build html files by running in the docs folder the following:
```
make html
```

## Release your library on PyPI (Python Package Index):
Uploading your library on PyPI makes it directly public. In case you would first like to see how it looks like, you can use [TestPyPI](https://test.pypi.org/ "TestPyPI") instead of [PyPI](https://pypi.org/ "PyPI"). Either way, the following steps have to be done:
- [ ] register on PyPI / TestPyPI
- [ ] if no setup.py file is available it has to be written. This file is an build script for setuptools.
- [ ] install the latest version of wheel:
```
$ python3 -m pip install --user --upgrade setuptools wheel
```
- [ ] build archives based on the setup.py file. This command should generate the dist folder, containing two files:
```
$ python3 setup.py sdist bdist_wheel
```
- [ ] install twine:
```
$ python3 -m pip install --user --upgrade twine
```
If this does not work, try the following:
```
$ python3.6 -m pip install --user --upgrade twine
$ conda install -c conda-forge twine
$ conda install -c pbrod twine
```
Make sure to have the newest version (twine 1.11.0 or higher) installed. <br/>
Now twine can be run to upload the archives under dist ([Uploading by twine](https://github.com/pypa/twine "Uploading by twine")). <br/>
For TestPyPI:
```
$ twine upload --repository-url https://test.pypi.org/legacy/ dist/*
```
For PyPI:
```
$ twine upload dist/*
```
Now your library should be able to be installed by running: <br/>
For TestPyPI
```
python3 -m pip install --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple/ your_library
```
Or for PyPI:
```
pip install your_library
```
For more information the [Python Packaging User Guide](https://packaging.python.org/tutorials/packaging-projects/ "Packaging Python Projects") is recommended.

## Read the Docs
To build a documentation website out of the documentation files, Read the Docs can be used.
- [ ] Register for Read the Docs ([Read the Docs-Sign up](https://readthedocs.org/accounts/signup/ "Sign up")) or sign in with Git.
- [ ] Import a Project: here you can import your Git Repository.
- [ ] Enter the required information and build your project.
- [ ] Go to 'Admin' within your project and then to Integration. Copy the URL.
- [ ] Go to Settings within your Git Repository. Then go to 'Webhooks' and click 'Add webhook'. Add the copied URL to 'Payload URL'. The further configuration can left unchanged. At the end click 'Add webhook'.
- [ ] Go back to your project on Read the Docs and try to build it again. This time it should pass. <br/>

If it is not passing, click on the lastest version, which did not pass and try to solve the error. <br/>
When it passed, you can click on 'View Docs' to see your documentation. <br/>
The Git Repository should be connected to PyPI by the setup.py file and to Read the Docs by importing the Git Repository. Therefore, if you go to your project on PyPI, the documentation 'docs' should be passing now and able to see from the PyPI webpage. <br/>

## Travis CI
With the continuous integration service Travis CI your GitHub project can be build and tested.
- [ ] sign in with GitHub (or create a new account)
- [ ] Add or enable a Repository you want to build
- [ ] Add, if not already available, a '.travis.yml' file, which can loook as the following:
```
# Config file for automatic testing at travis-ci.org

language: python
python:
  - 3.6

# command to install dependencies, e.g. pip install -r requirements.txt --use-mirrors
install:
  - "pip install -r requirements_dev.txt"

# command to run tests
script: cd tests && pytest && cd ..
```
- [ ] Add, commit and push this '.travis.yml' file to your Git Repository.
Thereby, and for every other pushed change, a Travis CI build should be triggered ([Getting started with Travis CI](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/getting-started/ "Travis CI Introduction")).